{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red38\green38\blue38;\red0\green45\blue153;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23380\viewh14740\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl457\sa200

\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 I am interested in a combination of human-computer interaction, ubiquitous/pervasive computing, and data. I want to design and develop systems that have a positive impact on people or an ecosystem.\
I am currently a student at Georgia Tech, pursuing my Masters degree in Human-Computer Interaction. I am working as a research assistant with Professor Lauren Klein to study how information visualization and people's understanding and acceptance of data has changed over history.\
When I am not studying and working, I enjoy spending time outside, mountain biking, hiking, running, and scuba diving.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
I design systems that have a positive impact on people or an ecosystem. This involves user research, domain exploration, brainstorming, wireframing, prototyping, evaluating, etc. \
\
I am currently pursuing my Masters degree at Georgia Tech in Human-Computer Interaction, focusing on ubiquitous computing, data, and interaction design. \
\
Some of my strengths are: \
- carefully making decisions by identifying and reducing risks\
- analyzing projects in the early stages \
- taking my responsibilities seriously\
- adopting and learning new technology early \
- providing relevant help to others\
\
In addition to thinking about the future and designing new things, I mountain bike, hike and run with my dog, scuba dive, and explore new places. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Explain your process of careful decision making. Clarify that you highlight risk in order to take control and reduce it. Don\'92t allow others to misconstrue your Deliberative theme as tentativeness or fear of action.
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f1\b0 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 When you are working with a group to plan a new initiative or project, be involved in the early stages. You will be able to assess the feasibility and direction of the plan before it gets too far into the process.\
Align yourself with others who share your sense of commitment. You will thrive when surrounded by others who take their responsibilities as seriously as you do.\
Designate yourself as an early adopter for new technology, such as a new point-of-sale or back-office system. You will learn quickly and be able to share important advances with your colleagues and peers.\
Identify your areas of specialization and actively seek more information about them.
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Bark Hint
\b0 \
\
skills learned/practiced: \
- coming up with a creative and effective design for a system\
\
Introduction \
\
Bark Hint is a project that began as a class homework assignment aimed at demonstrating our individual design skills and developing a creative and effective design for a system. Given the short timeframe of the project and the small scope, I drew from personal problems I encounter on a regular basis rather than speaking with a specific population. I also made an effort to verify with friends that I\'92m not the only one with the problem: both remembering to feed the dog (and remembering that you did, in fact, feed the dog) and communicating whether or not you did so with anyone else involved in the care of the dog. For the project, I explained the background, tasks, context, and users, as well as sketched some designs and made an early prototype.
\b \
\
\
\
Data Science for Social Good \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
skills learned/practiced: \
- identifying a manageable problem within a larger problem space\
- conversing and observing users of population with problem space \
- developing solutions with arcgis and html/css/javascript\
\
takeaways: \
- better understanding of how government divisions work\
- deepened knowledge about data and data-based decision making \
\
summary\
process\
problems/solution\
takeaways \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f2\fs28 \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I worked on a multi-disciplinary team to assist non-profit Trees Atlanta and the Atlanta Tree Conservation Commission to support preservation of Atlanta's urban tree canopy. Working closely with representatives from the organizations, we developed 3 applications to make their work easier and more efficient.\

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
What? \
My role: 1 of 3-person team, as a team we: communicated with clients, identified problems, brainstormed solutions, sifted through data; I: processed data in ArcGIS, developed static presentations of data, built project webpage\
Process\
Problems/Solutions\
Concluding Comments: Takeaways \
Media\
\
What? A 10-week summer internship at Georgia Tech, Data Science for Social Good (DSSG), where teams tackle problems from the city and local nonprofits. \
\
Who? A 3-member team, including myself, working with two clients: Trees Atlanta, a nonprofit, and the Atlanta Tree Conservation Commission \
\
When? May - July 2015\
\
Why? To solve a real problem, urban tree canopy preservation, with data. \
\
How? Working with representatives from clients, identifying problems, analyzing data in ArcGIS, developing web applications to make clients\'92 work easier and provide them with easy-to-understand information \
\
My role: In addition to teamwork which included communicating with our clients, researching the problem space, identifying problems, and brainstorming solutions, I processed data in ArcGIS, developed static presentations of data, and built the project webpage. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 I participated in the Data Science for Social Good program at Georgia Tech, a 10-week summer program where teams tackle problems from the city and local nonprofits. I was part of a three-person team - the other two members were Computer Science students. Our project was to assist non-profit Trees Atlanta and the Atlanta Tree Conservation Commission as they work to preserve Atlanta\'92s urban tree canopy. Specifically, our task was to help them through available data. Working closely with representatives from the organizations, we developed three applications to make their work easier and more efficient. \
\
We started by researching the problem space, which included remote sensing, tree maintenance at a city level, urban tree canopy, and benefits of trees. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf6 (scouting img)\cf0 \
We talked with our partners, one from the City of Atlanta\'92s Tree Conservation Commission, who is responsible for tree management and policymaking, and the other from Trees Atlanta, who is responsible for locating areas to plant trees as contracted by City of Atlanta. We also joined the member of Trees Atlanta during a scouting trip out in the city. \
\
By interviewing and observing our partners, we learned that they have a lot of various needs. Given the time frame and scope of our project, we identified three specific problems to solve.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf6 (screenshot of sol 1)\cf0 \
1. Problem: Current records of trees planted by Trees Atlanta existed as a spreadsheet and part of a basic database. The records included information like genus, species, location, and year planted. This information was only in list format, which provided no physical reference and was not a presentable format for the public. Solution: To give Trees Atlanta a visual way to explore and present their data, a record of their work, we decided to develop an interactive, web-based map using Leaflet and D3. With this solution, the location-based data can be appropriately viewed geographically, and be used in presentations. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf6 (screenshot of sol 2)\cf0 \
2. Problem: One of the problems we identified during our conversations is the process by which Trees Atlanta finds new locations to plant trees, to fulfill contract work by the City of Atlanta. The current process for finding locations is centered around individual knowledge and semi-random driving around the city looking for locations. Solution: To optimize this process, as well as provide information to the unexperienced, we designed and developed an interactive map of Atlanta broken down by property parcels. The user can prioritize the parcels to see which ones might have more space and need for new tree plantings, thus guiding their scouting process in the field. \
\
Challenges: I led the work on the user interaction with this application. The biggest challenge in designing the user interface were the sliders on the right panel. The user needed to understand that the sliders change the numbers in the prioritization model, rather than filtering out categories. For example, if the slider is all the way on the left for the Urban Tree Canopy weight, then the model prioritizes parcels with a low urban tree canopy. We went through a few iterations before our final design. We decided to have \'93Low is important\'94 and \'93High is important\'94 listed once at the top of the sliders to avoid having too many elements to look at. We made sure to call them \'93weights\'94 and not \'93filters\'94. While it is ideal to have the interface intuitive and easy to use at first glance, we decided to include instructions at the top. Our users might not understand what a prioritization model is, so a small explanation is necessary. \
\
\
\cf6 (screenshot of sol 3)\cf0 \
3. Problem: Another need we addressed centered around the Tree Conservation Commission\'92s responsibility for conserving large tracts of forest. They wanted to know not only where large areas of forest exist in the city, but also related information like property type, owner, value, and tree cover percentage. Solution: Similar to our previous solution, we designed and developed an interactive map where the user can view contiguous tracts of forest and which parcels they are made up of, with all of the relevant information. \
\
\cf6 (poster, img from session)\cf0 \
Throughout our process, we communicated with our partners through weekly meetings. These involved discussions about the structure and content of the data, our current solution ideas and testing of the current iterations. A midterm project presentation helped guide our process. As with many data-based projects, we spent a large chunk of time on data wrangling - combining relevant datasets in ArcGIS, formatting, etc. This left little time for application design, so we rapidly iterated over working solutions. We spent the last week on documentation, in hopes that future teams will be able to continue work on design detail and usability analyses. \
\
My favorite thing about this project was learning about new subjects - data and trees. I gained a wider understanding of data and data-based decision making, as well as an appreciation for how much work and time goes into maintaining an urban tree canopy. \
\
\cf6 (team img)\cf0 \
Our project was covered by a few news sources, including NPR. We wrote a short paper for Data for Good by Bloomberg, which was accepted. The final presentations for the internship program were held at General Assembly in Atlanta. I and one other team member attended the workshop at Bloomberg\'92s headquarters in New York City. \
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Ubicomp NASA
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f2\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 I worked with 3 other students to develop a prototype to help NASA develop tools for astronauts. NASA requested a wearable device to help astronauts navigate on planetary surfaces where they might not have audio or visual contact. The goal was not to have a functioning product or even robust prototype, but rather to generate idea that NASA might expand upon. To meet this goal, we developed a prototype of a vest with vibration motors to provide haptic feedback for navigation. At the end of the semester, we presented at NASA's JSC Wearable Technology Symposium in Houston, TX.\
\
The focus of this was to explore the technology of ubiquitous computing, rather than the design process of user interviews, testing, iteration, et cetera. We started by developing goals to guide our prototype development. Based on NASA\'92s project proposal, we decided that our process should be guided by three goals: 1) the system should be comfortable, durable, and adaptable, 2) the system should effectively communicate through haptic feedback, and 3) there should be intuitive activation of the system. \
\
We brainstormed ideas individually, came together, sketched, and discussed. Based on factors, like fit and comfort of wearables and vibrator motors, we combined a few of our ideas. The final design we developed was a vest with four vibration motors on the back in a diamond formation. To provide directional feedback, we created vibration patterns. It turned out that designing the system activation was the most exciting. Since this device is only to be triggered during an emergency when other communication with the base is lost, we wanted to make sure it couldn\'92t accidentally be triggered. On the other hand, it needs to be triggered easily if something does occur. We ended up having a velcro strip on one arm that can easily be pulled up by the other arm. This activates the system and begins providing directions back to the safe location. In actual development, this plus the vibration motors on the back, would be incorporated into a future space suit. For our prototype, we treated it as a standalone vest. \
\
Since this class was not about user testing, we informally had people try on the vest and give us feedback about how they interpreted the directions (move forward, turn around, turn right, turn left). If we had continued this project, we would have revisited the patterns and vibration motors based on the informal feedback, made a few modifications based on the feedback, existing systems, and research, and then conducted a formal user study.  \

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Drones & Forgaging
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400

\f2\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 I explored the use of DIY drones and urban foraging as an undergraduate research assistant with Professor Carl DiSalvo and two other students. For this speculative design project, I developed use cases, visualized fruit data with D3, and worked with hobby drones. We were recognized as a \'93student notable\'94 project from the 2014 Core77 design awards. \
\
Process\
\
The problem we focused on is that the use of drones is becoming more popular in big, industrial agriculture but not in small-scale or alternative agriculture. Because hobbyist drones are becoming more popular, there is something to explore. \cf5 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We started researching this design space by exploring relevant categories. \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 With the information, we created an affinity diagram to help us understand the problem space. We also met with, and continued to meet with, volunteers from an urban foraging group called Concrete Jungle.\
\
To start, we went foraging ourselves to understand their process. By using their online map of fruit trees in public spaces, we visited a few locations. Given much had already been harvested and it was towards the end of the season, we just managed to pick some serviceberries. One of the problems that Concrete Jungle faced is the inability to see if fruit trees were ready for picking. It required a member going to the location to examine the tree. This was the main task or question guiding our project: can drones be used to minimize the time and effort required to see if fruit is ready for picking? \
\
Tech work \
\
We researched DIY drones that might fit into our project, mainly going by a reasonable price, a good support system, and customer reviews. We selected a JDrones arducopter and a Parrot 2.0. Once we became comfortable with the existing drones, which we did by flying them and video recording areas around the fruit trees, we explored more specific areas. \
\
I worked on understanding image recognition algorithms to see if the drone could recognize fruit on trees and whether or not it\'92s ripe - by color and shape. Given the complexity of this subject, I looked into ImageJ, an open-source program typically used for cell recognition in biology work. It recognized most apples, since they are round, but ultimately wasn\'92t suited for our purposes. \
\
Design work \
\
Based on what Concrete Jungle does, we developed use cases and user stories, to help us understand their needs. Since the project was more speculative than product-driven, two of my main deliverables were interactive visualizations and design documentation. 
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
The interactive visualizations were to help Concrete Jungle understand the various amount of fruit tree types in the city. Using their data, I used d3 to create interactive bar charts. The design documentation covered the work I did with ImageJ in the form of a tutorial or walkthrough to enable others to repeat the process. \
\
\

\b historical visualization
\b0 \
\
I am working with Professor Lauren Klein and a Digital Media student to explore historical visualizations with modern technologies. One of our projects, about four months in duration, focused on William Playfair\'92s difference charts. We recreated this using d3.js to understand both the past and the present, how data is interpreted, and the idea of repair in digital media. This process resulted in two visualizations, one interactive and one static, and a paper which we submitted to Digital Humanities, a European-based conference. In particular, I worked on the static map and assisted in the writing of the paper. \
\
The biggest challenge I encountered while creating the static map was differentiating between existing data from William Playfair and data that I had to interpret. Ultimately I ended up using a technique described by Kevin Schaul. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 For a second project, we are making an educational technique from Elizabeth Peabody interactive using Javascript. Her idea is to show chronological events on a chart of 100 squares for a century, color-coded by country and placed by event type. This requires extensive custom Javascript code to make it modern and interactive. \
\
My main role in this project is to focus on the design and code for user interactions. I am particularly interested in how one might use and learn from this technique with modern technologies. A future idea I hope to pursue is developing the interactions for a physical rug, where a user might step or touch the square to interact with it and chart the history. This would involve extensive work with fabrication and Arduino. \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 HCI project
\b0 \
\
\
brainstorm photo\
\
(intro)\
\
In a team of four, I went through an entire user-centered design cycle from identifying a problem to testing a prototype solution. To identify a problem space, I spoke with a friend who is a teacher to learn about her work and problems she regularly encounters. She described to me an issue that takes away from instruction time: fire drills. Frequent fire drills that schools are required to have take away from classroom time, and often take longer than they should be due to lack of communication between teachers and administrators. We initially decided to frame this problem from kindergarten to 12th grade, including not only fire drills but also intruder and severe weather drills. During the course of the semester, we narrowed it down to fire drills in high schools. Our reasoning was that high schools are the most chaotic environments - students are less likely to mind their teachers - and fire drills require the most movement of everyone. Solve the problem in this context, and the solution should easily extend to other, less complicated situation. \
\
My role: development of Axure prototypes, observation of fire drill and interviews with teachers/administrators, communication with participants for evaluation, leading brainstorm sessions, problem space identification\
\
\
(understand the problem space) \
\
Our first step was to understand more about the problem space. In addition to verifying that is is a problem for multiple teachers and schools, we wanted to know exactly who our potential users are, what tasks they might want to do, what our system should do, and what would make our system a success. To begin, we conducted semi-structured interviews with 10 people between the four of us. I spoke with three teachers. From these interviews, we learned that there is a communication gap between teachers and administrators which likely delays the return time to classrooms. In addition to speaking with our potential users, we also researched any existing commercial systems. We didn\'92t find any solution for our problem, but we did learn about emergency preparation plans. Based on our findings, we developed usability criteria to measure our future solution, as well as implications to guide our design development. \
\
img: task analysis\
\
(design alternatives) \
\
Together, we developed design alternatives. From our brainstorm session, we decided to sketch three ideas. In addition to a mobile app, we also explored a wearable jacket and a Google Glass app. At this point in time, we were able to visit a high school to observe a fire drill and speak with more teachers. Before the drill, we presented our sketches and wireframe mockups of our three ideas to a few teachers to get feedback. During the drill, we observed the teachers, students, and administrators, and took notes, especially on pain points. I was also able to speak with an administrator; because they are incredibly busy, an appointment couldn\'92t be scheduled, but he had some free time after the drill. Based on all of their feedback, plus feedback from a class poster session, we decided to prototype a mobile app. We made this decision due to a few reasons, such as the users\'92 familiarity with tech, flexibility, and cost. Phones are already used for communication, so this was a natural extension. \
\
carousel: brainstorm, alt1, alt2, alt3\
\
(system prototype and evaluation plan) \
\
Based on factors like time, skills within our group, and project requirements, we decided to use Axure to prototype our app. I was able to implement the necessary front-end functionality for testing without having to worry about back-end functionality. When developing the prototype, we kept in mind the usability specifications we developed; for example, keeping the design simple and obvious to avoid errors and be intuitive. Front-end functionality included taking attendance, messaging an administrator, and receiving announcements. \
\
carousel: screens on board & index card, final design screenshots \
\
(evaluation) \
\
Because of research approval limitations, we decided to conduct a mock fire drill at a public library near the school where we observed the fire drill. We were lucky to have four teachers dedicate their time during a hectic school week to evaluate the app. The evaluation included benchmark tasks to complete, a short demographics survey, a questionnaire to gather individual opinions, and a group interview. We chose a questionnaire to get unbiased feedback, and a group interview as we did not know how many participants we would have or the layout of the testing space. A group interview also made sense because it was the first real evaluation, still in the early development process with plenty of room to grow and change, and the app involves tasks with a group and facilitates communication. \
\
(conclusion) \
\
While many of my other projects have involved some component of the user-centered design process, this project was my first that encompassed the entire cycle (or at least one iteration). At the end, it was rewarding to hear the teachers say they want to use it and the administrator ask when it would be on the market. I believe this is due to how we adhered to the user-centered design process to pinpoint problems directly from the relevant people and develop solutions. Documentation was also important for the project. While I came into the project a strong writer, I learned more about what needs to be concisely explained to someone who is not directly involved in the project: specific details about users, needs, tasks, usability criteria, evaluation techniques, results, discussion, and justification for everything. A robust document, created after developing the prototype but before testing, can be found here. \
\
pdf: documentation for P3\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}